README.md, before:

# AbstractTensors.jl

*TensorAlgebra abstract type system interoperability with VectorSpace parameter*

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/yey8huk505h4b81u?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/chakravala/abstracttensors-jl)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl?branch=master)
[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl?branch=master)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Grassmann-jl/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/Grassmann-jl/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

This package is intended for universal interoperability of the abstract `TensorAlgebra` type system.
All `TensorAlgebra{V}` subtypes contain `V` in their type parameters, used to store a `VectorSpace` value obtained from the [DirectSum.jl](https://github.com/chakravala/DirectSum.jl) package.

For example, this is mainly used in [Grassmann.jl](https://github.com/chakravala/Grassmann.jl) to define various `SubAlgebra`, `TensorTerm` and `TensorMixed` types, each with subtypes. Externalizing the abstract type helps extend the dispatch to other packages.
```Julia
julia> Grassmann.TensorTerm{V,G} <: AbstractTensors.TensorAlgebra{V}
true
```
By itself, this package does not impose any structure or specifications on the `TensorAlgebra{V}` subtypes and elements, aside from requiring `V` to be a `VectorSpace`.
This means that different packages can create special types of tensors with shared method names and a common underlying `VectorSpace` structure.

## Interoperability

Since `VectorSpace` choices are fundamental to `TensorAlgebra` operations, the universal interoperability between `TensorAlgebra{V}` elements with different associated `VectorSpace` choices is naturally realized by applying the `union` morphism to operations.

```Julia
function op(::TensorAlgebra{V},::TensorAlgebra{V}) where V
    # well defined operations if V is shared
end # but what if V ≠ W in the input types?

function op(a::TensorAlgebra{V},b::TensorAlgebra{W}) where {V,W}
    VW = V ∪ W        # VectorSpace type union
    op(VW(a),VW(b))   # makes call well-defined
end # this option is automatic with interop(a,b)

# alternatively for evaluation of forms, VW(a)(VW(b))
```
Some of the method names like `+,-,*,⊗` for `TensorAlgebra` elements are shared across different packages, some of the interoperability is taken care of in this package.
Additionally, a universal unit volume element can be specified in terms of `LinearAlgebra.UniformScaling`, which is independent of `V` and has its interpretation only instantiated by the context of the `TensorAlgebra{V}` element being operated on.

### Example with a new subtype

Suppose we are dealing with a new subtype in another project, such as
```Julia
using AbstractTensors, DirectSum
struct SpecialTensor{V} <: TensorAlgebra{V} end
a = SpecialTensor{ℝ}()
b = SpecialTensor{ℝ'}()
```
To define additional specialized interoperability for further methods, it is necessary to define dispatch that catches well-defined operations for equal `VectorSpace` choices and a fallback method for interoperability, along with a `VectorSpace` morphism:
```Julia
(W::Signature)(s::SpecialTensor{V}) where V = SpecialTensor{W}() # conversions
op(a::SpecialTensor{V},b::SpecialTensor{V}) where V = a # do some kind of operation
op(a::TensorAlgebra{V},b::TensorAlgebra{W}) where {V,W} = interop(op,a,b) # compat
```
which should satisfy (using the `∪` operation as defined in `DirectSum`)
```Julia
julia> op(a,b) |> vectorspace == vectorspace(a) ∪ vectorspace(b)
true
```
Thus, interoperability is simply a matter of defining one additional fallback method for the operation and also a new form `VectorSpace` compatibility morphism.

#### UniformScaling pseudoscalar

The universal interoperability of `LinearAlgebra.UniformScaling` as a pseudoscalar element which takes on the `VectorSpace` form of any other `TensorAlgebra` element is handled globally by defining the dispatch:
```Julia
(W::Signature)(s::UniformScaling) = ones(ndims(W)) # interpret a unit pseudoscalar
op(a::TensorAlgebra{V},b::UniformScaling) where V = op(a,V(b)) # right pseudoscalar
op(a::UniformScaling,b::TensorAlgebra{V}) where V = op(V(a),b) # left pseudoscalar
```
This enables the usage of `I` from `LinearAlgebra` as a universal pseudoscalar element.

##### Tensor evaluation

To support a generalized interface for `TensorAlgebra` element evaluation, a similar compatibility interface is constructible.

```Julia
(a::SpecialTensor{V})(b::SpecialTensor{V}) where V = a # conversion of some form
(a::SpecialTensor{W})(b::SpecialTensor{V}) where {V,W} = interform(a,b) # compat
```
which should satisfy (using the `∪` operation as defined in `DirectSum`)
```Julia
julia> b(a) |> vectorspace == vectorspace(a) ∪ vectorspace(b)
true
```
The purpose of the `interop` and `interform` methods is to help unify the interoperability of `TensorAlgebra` elements.

### Deployed applications

By importing the `AbstractTensors` module, the [Reduce.jl](https://github.com/chakravala/Reduce.jl) is able to correctly bypass operations on `TensorAlgebra` elements to the correct methods within the scope of the `Reduce.Algebra` module.
This requires no additional overhead for the `Grassmann` or `Reduce` packages, because the `AbstractTensors` interoperability interface enables separate precompilation of both.
Additionally, the `VectorSpace` interoperability also enables more arbitrary inputs.

*AbstractTensors.jl* provides the abstract interoperability between tensor algebras having differing `VectorSpace` parameters. The great thing about it is that the `VectorSpace` unions and intersections are handled separately in a different package and the actual tensor implementations are handled separately also. This enables anyone who wishes to be interoperable with `TensorAlgebra` to build their own subtypes in their own separate package with interoperability automatically possible between it all, provided the guidelines are followed.

The key to making the whole interoperability work is that each `TensorAlgebra` subtype shares a `VectorSpace` parameter (with all `isbitstype` parameters), which contains all the info needed at compile time to make decisions about conversions. So other packages need only use the vector space information to decide on how to convert based on the implementation of a type. If external methods are needed, they can be loaded by `Requires` when making a separate package with `TensorAlgebra` interoperability.

Commit message:

created Postfix{Op} and refined utility methods/tests

README.md, after:

# AbstractTensors.jl

*TensorAlgebra abstract type system interoperability with VectorSpace parameter*

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/yey8huk505h4b81u?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/chakravala/abstracttensors-jl)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl?branch=master)
[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/chakravala/AbstractTensors.jl?branch=master)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Grassmann-jl/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/Grassmann-jl/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

This package is intended for universal interoperability of the abstract `TensorAlgebra` type system.
All `TensorAlgebra{V}` subtypes contain `V` in their type parameters, used to store a `VectorSpace` value obtained from the [DirectSum.jl](https://github.com/chakravala/DirectSum.jl) package.

For example, this is mainly used in [Grassmann.jl](https://github.com/chakravala/Grassmann.jl) to define various `SubAlgebra`, `TensorTerm` and `TensorMixed` types, each with subtypes. Externalizing the abstract type helps extend the dispatch to other packages.
```Julia
julia> Grassmann.TensorTerm{V,G} <: AbstractTensors.TensorAlgebra{V}
true
```
By itself, this package does not impose any structure or specifications on the `TensorAlgebra{V}` subtypes and elements, aside from requiring `V` to be a `VectorSpace`.
This means that different packages can create special types of tensors with shared method names and a common underlying `VectorSpace` structure.

## Interoperability

Since `VectorSpace` choices are fundamental to `TensorAlgebra` operations, the universal interoperability between `TensorAlgebra{V}` elements with different associated `VectorSpace` choices is naturally realized by applying the `union` morphism to operations.

```Julia
function op(::TensorAlgebra{V},::TensorAlgebra{V}) where V
    # well defined operations if V is shared
end # but what if V ≠ W in the input types?

function op(a::TensorAlgebra{V},b::TensorAlgebra{W}) where {V,W}
    VW = V ∪ W        # VectorSpace type union
    op(VW(a),VW(b))   # makes call well-defined
end # this option is automatic with interop(a,b)

# alternatively for evaluation of forms, VW(a)(VW(b))
```
Some of operations like `+,-,*,⊗,⊛,⊙,⊠,⨼,⨽,⋆` and postfix operators `⁻¹,ǂ,₊,₋,ˣ` for `TensorAlgebra` elements are shared across different packages, some of the interoperability is taken care of in this package.
Additionally, a universal unit volume element can be specified in terms of `LinearAlgebra.UniformScaling`, which is independent of `V` and has its interpretation only instantiated by the context of the `TensorAlgebra{V}` element being operated on.

Utility methods such as `scalar, involute, norm, norm2, unit, even, odd` are also defined.

### Example with a new subtype

Suppose we are dealing with a new subtype in another project, such as
```Julia
using AbstractTensors, DirectSum
struct SpecialTensor{V} <: TensorAlgebra{V} end
a = SpecialTensor{ℝ}()
b = SpecialTensor{ℝ'}()
```
To define additional specialized interoperability for further methods, it is necessary to define dispatch that catches well-defined operations for equal `VectorSpace` choices and a fallback method for interoperability, along with a `VectorSpace` morphism:
```Julia
(W::Signature)(s::SpecialTensor{V}) where V = SpecialTensor{W}() # conversions
op(a::SpecialTensor{V},b::SpecialTensor{V}) where V = a # do some kind of operation
op(a::TensorAlgebra{V},b::TensorAlgebra{W}) where {V,W} = interop(op,a,b) # compat
```
which should satisfy (using the `∪` operation as defined in `DirectSum`)
```Julia
julia> op(a,b) |> vectorspace == vectorspace(a) ∪ vectorspace(b)
true
```
Thus, interoperability is simply a matter of defining one additional fallback method for the operation and also a new form `VectorSpace` compatibility morphism.

#### UniformScaling pseudoscalar

The universal interoperability of `LinearAlgebra.UniformScaling` as a pseudoscalar element which takes on the `VectorSpace` form of any other `TensorAlgebra` element is handled globally by defining the dispatch:
```Julia
(W::Signature)(s::UniformScaling) = ones(ndims(W)) # interpret a unit pseudoscalar
op(a::TensorAlgebra{V},b::UniformScaling) where V = op(a,V(b)) # right pseudoscalar
op(a::UniformScaling,b::TensorAlgebra{V}) where V = op(V(a),b) # left pseudoscalar
```
This enables the usage of `I` from `LinearAlgebra` as a universal pseudoscalar element.

##### Tensor evaluation

To support a generalized interface for `TensorAlgebra` element evaluation, a similar compatibility interface is constructible.

```Julia
(a::SpecialTensor{V})(b::SpecialTensor{V}) where V = a # conversion of some form
(a::SpecialTensor{W})(b::SpecialTensor{V}) where {V,W} = interform(a,b) # compat
```
which should satisfy (using the `∪` operation as defined in `DirectSum`)
```Julia
julia> b(a) |> vectorspace == vectorspace(a) ∪ vectorspace(b)
true
```
The purpose of the `interop` and `interform` methods is to help unify the interoperability of `TensorAlgebra` elements.

### Deployed applications

By importing the `AbstractTensors` module, the [Reduce.jl](https://github.com/chakravala/Reduce.jl) is able to correctly bypass operations on `TensorAlgebra` elements to the correct methods within the scope of the `Reduce.Algebra` module.
This requires no additional overhead for the `Grassmann` or `Reduce` packages, because the `AbstractTensors` interoperability interface enables separate precompilation of both.
Additionally, the `VectorSpace` interoperability also enables more arbitrary inputs.

*AbstractTensors.jl* provides the abstract interoperability between tensor algebras having differing `VectorSpace` parameters. The great thing about it is that the `VectorSpace` unions and intersections are handled separately in a different package and the actual tensor implementations are handled separately also. This enables anyone who wishes to be interoperable with `TensorAlgebra` to build their own subtypes in their own separate package with interoperability automatically possible between it all, provided the guidelines are followed.

The key to making the whole interoperability work is that each `TensorAlgebra` subtype shares a `VectorSpace` parameter (with all `isbitstype` parameters), which contains all the info needed at compile time to make decisions about conversions. So other packages need only use the vector space information to decide on how to convert based on the implementation of a type. If external methods are needed, they can be loaded by `Requires` when making a separate package with `TensorAlgebra` interoperability.
